'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: Command.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:08 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Command 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH INTERFACE
tcl.lang.Command -- The interface for defining new Tcl commands.

.SH METHODS
.sp
abstract void \fBcmdProc\fR(Interp \fIinterp\fR, TclObject \fIargv[]\fR)

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject "table[]" .
.AP Interp interp
The interpreter in which the command is executed.
.AP TclObject argv[]
The array of argument objects passed to the command.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION

To write a new Tcl command in Java, you write a class that implement
the \fBCommand\fR interface and its \fBcmdProc\fR method. Then,
register the command using the \fIinterp\fR.\fBcreateCommand\fR method.
.sp
\fBcmdProc\fR is invoked to process a Tcl command for
\fIinterp\fR. The \fIargv\fR array contains the arguments passed to
the command: \fIargv\fR[0] is the name of the command and the rest of
the array contains the rest of the arguments.
.sp
If the command execution completes normally, this method should pass
the result object back to the interpreter by calling
\fIinterp\fR.\fBsetResult\fR and then return normally. If an error
occurs during the command execution, \fBcmdProc\fR should throw a
\fBTclException\fR with appropriate completion code and error messages
(see the manual entry of \fBTclException\fR for details.)
.sp
If your command requires clean-up when it's removed from the
interpreter, use the \fBCommandWithDispose\fR interface instead of the
\fBCommand\fR interface. See the \fBCommandWithDispose\fR manual entry
for details.


.SH EXAMPLE

Here is an example of a Tcl command that adds two integers and returns
the result.
.CS
import tcl.lang;

class AddCmd implements Command {
    public cmdProc(Interp interp, TclObject argv[])
            throws TclException {
        if (argv.length != 3) {
            throw new TclNumArgsException(interp, 1, argv,
                "num1 num2");
        }

        int num1 = TclInteger.get(interp, argv[1]);
        int num2 = TclInteger.get(interp, argv[2]);

        TclObject result =
            TclInteger.newInstance(num1 + num2);
        interp.setResult(result);
    }
}
.CE

.SH "EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS"
Tcl_CommandProc

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Interp, TclException, TclInteger, TclNumArgsException, TclObject,
CommandWithDispose

.SH KEYWORDS
command, create, interpreter, exception


