'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: createCmd.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:08 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH createCmd 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.Interp -- This manual entry contains Interp methods that implement
new Tcl commands in Java.

.SH METHODS
.sp
void \fBcreateCommand\fR(String \fIcmdName\fR, Command \fIcmd\fR)
.sp
int \fBdeleteCommand\fR(String \fIcmdName\fR)
.sp
Command \fBgetCommand\fR(String \fIcmdName\fR)

.SH OTHER METHODS
\fBsetVar\fR, 
\fBtraceVar\fR, 
\fBeval\fR, 
\fBsetResult\fR, 
\fBbackgroundError\fR,
.br
\fBgetNotifier\fR, 
\fBsetAssocData\fR, 
\fBdispose\fR, 
\fBpkgRequire\fR

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Command cmdName .
.AP String cmdName
Name of command to create, delete, or get.
.AP Command cmd
Value of command to create.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
The procedures described here are utilities for creating, querying,
modifying, and deleting Tcl commands.
.TP
\fBcreateCommand\fR

The \fBcreateCommand\fR method defines a new command in the interp and
associates it with the object \fIcmd\fR such that whenever
\fIcmdName\fR is invoked as a Tcl command (via a call to Interp's
\fBeval\fR method) the Tcl interpreter will call \fIcmd\fR.cmdProc to
process the command.  If an old Command object with \fIcmdName\fR
already exists in the interpreter, the old Command object will be
deleted. If the old Command object implements the CommandWithDispose
interface, its disposeCmd() method will be called. See
CommandWithDispose below.

.TP
\fBdeleteCommand\fR
The \fBdeleteCommand\fR method deletes the command with the name
\fIcmdName\fR from the interpreter.  If the command exists, it is
deleted and this method returns 0.  If the command does not exist,
this method returns -1.  If the \fIcmd\fR object implements the
CommandWithDispose interface, its disposeCmd() method will
be called after the command is deleted.
.TP
\fBgetCommand\fR
The \fBgetCommand\fR method returns the Command object that represents the
command with the name \fIcmdName\fR.

.SH EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS
Tcl_CreateCommand, Tcl_DeleteCommand, Tcl_GetCommandInfo

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Interp, CommandWithDispose, Eval, Command

.SH KEYWORDS
bind, command, create, delete, interpreter
