'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: Eval.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:09 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Eval 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.Interp -- This manual entry contains Interp methods that execute or
check Tcl scripts.

.SH METHODS
.sp
void \fBeval\fR(String \fIstr\fR) throws TclException
.sp
void \fBeval\fR(String \fIstr\fR, int \fIflags\fR) throws TclException
.sp
void \fBeval\fR(TclObject \fItobj\fR, int \fIflags\fR) throws TclException
.sp
void \fBevalFile\fR(String \fIfileName\fR) throws TclException
.sp
static boolean \fBcommandComplete\fR(String \fIcmdName\fR) throws TclException

.SH OTHER METHODS
\fBsetVar\fR, 
\fBtraceVar\fR, 
\fBcreateCommand\fR,
\fBsetResult\fR, 
\fBbackgroundError\fR,
.br
\fBgetNotifier\fR, 
\fBsetAssocData\fR, 
\fBdispose\fR, 
\fBpkgRequire\fR

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject fileName .
.AP String str
String value of script to evaluate.
.AP TclObject tobj
TclObject value of script to evaluate.
.AP int flags
OR-ed combination of flag bits that specify additional options.
\fBTCL_EVAL_GLOBAL\fR and \fBTCL_EVAL_DIRECT\fR are currently
supported.  These flags control the stack level of the evaluation.
.AP String fileName
File containing script to evaluate.
.AP String cmdName
Command string to test for completeness.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
The methods described here are invoked to execute Tcl scripts in
various forms.
.TP
\fBeval\fR
The \fBeval\fR method executes the commands in the script stored in
\fIstr\fR or \fItobj\fR until either an error occurs or the end of the
script is reached.  If the \fIflag\fR argument is specified, it
controls the stack level of the evaluation via an OR-ed combination of
flag bits.  Currently, only the \fBTCL_EVAL_GLOBAL\fR flag is
supported.  If this flag is set, the script is processed at global
level.  This means that it is evaluated in the global namespace and
its variable context consists of global variables only (it ignores any
Tcl procedures that are active).  Otherwise, the script is evaluated in
the current stack level.  A TclException is thrown if an error occurs
in evaluating the \fIstr\fR or \fItobj\fR (e.g. the script contains bad
Tcl syntax or accesses an undefined variable).
.TP
\fBevalFile\fR 
The \fBevalFile\fR method reads the file given by \fIfileName\fR and
evaluates its contents as a Tcl script.  It behaves the same as
\fBeval\fR.
.TP
\fBcommandComplete\fR
The \fBcommandComplete\fR method takes a Tcl command \fIstr\fR
as argument and determines whether it contains one or more
complete commands (i.e. there are no unclosed quotes, braces,
brackets, or variable references).
If the command string is complete then it returns true; otherwise it
returns false.

.SH EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS
Tcl_Eval, Tcl_GlobalEval, Tcl_EvalObj, Tcl_EvalFile, Tcl_CommandComplete

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Interp, setVar, setResult, addErrorInfo, dispose, TclException,
TclRuntimeError, TclEvent

.SH KEYWORDS
complete command, execute, file, global, interpreter, object, partial
command, result, script 

