'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: IdleHandler.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:08 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH IdleHandler 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.IdleHandler -- Subclass from this abstract base class to
create idle event handlers.

.SH METHODS
.sp
\fBIdleHandler\fR(Notifier \fInotifier\fR)
.sp
synchronized void \fBcancel\fR()	
.sp
abstract void \fBprocessIdleEvent\fR()

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject "table[]" .
.AP Notifier notifier
The Notifier in which to register the new IdleHandler.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION

The \fBIdleHandler\fR class is used to schedule code to be executed
when the specified \fInotifier\fR becomes idle. The \fInotifier\fR is
considered to be idle when \fInotifier\fR.\fBdoOneEvent\fR has been
called, couldn't find any events to handle, and is about to go to
sleep waiting for an event to occur. At this point all pending idle
handlers are invoked. For each currently registered IdleHandler
instance, there will be a single call to its \fBprocessIdleEvent\fR
method; after that the IdleHandler instance is automatically
removed. The IdleHandler class is only usable in programs that use
\fInotifier\fR.\fBdoOneEvent\fR to dispatch events.

.TP
\fBIdleHandler\fR
This constructor creates an IdleHandler instance and register it
inside the given \fInotifier\fR.
.TP
\fBcancel\fR
If the \fBprocessIdleEvent\fR method has not been invoked yet, cancels
this idle handler. If the \fBprocessIdleEvent\fR method has already
been invoked, this call has no effect.
.TP
\fBprocessIdleEvent\fR
This method is called when the \fInotifier\fR is idle. You can
override this method to perform the desired actions when the idle
event occurs. The IdleHandler instance can be created in any
thread. However, \fBprocessIdleEvent\fR is always called in the
primary thread of the \fInotifier\fR that was specified in the
IdleHandler constructor.

.SH "EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS"
Tcl_CreateIdleHandler

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Notifier, TimerHandler

.SH KEYWORDS
idle, event, event queue
