'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: setAssocData.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:09 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH setAssocData 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.Interp -- This manual contains Interp methods that associate
user-specified data with the Interp.

.SH METHODS
.sp
void \fBsetAssocData\fR(String \fIkey\fR, AssocData \fIdata\fR)
.sp
void \fBgetAssocData\fR(String \fIkey\fR)
.sp
void \fBdeleteAssocData\fR(String \fIkey\fR)

.SH OTHER METHODS
\fBsetVar\fR, 
\fBtraceVar\fR, 
\fBcreateCommand\fR,
\fBeval\fR, 
\fBsetResult\fR,
.br 
\fBbackgroundError\fR,
\fBgetNotifier\fR, 
\fBdispose\fR, 
\fBpkgRequire\fR

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS AssocData data .
.AP String key
A string, typically the name of the extension, by which the \fIdata\fR
can be accessed.
.AP AssocData data
The instance of AssocData to associate with \fIkey\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The following methods allow Java extensions to associate their own
data with a Tcl interpreter.  An association consists of a string key,
typically the name of the extension, and an instance that implements
the AssocData interface (See \fBAssocData\fR).
.PP
When the interpreter is disposed via the dispose() method, the
disposeAssocData() methods of all the registered AssocData instances
are called to perform the necessary clean up.  Note that if an
association is removed as a result of the setAssocData() or
deleteAssocData() calls, the disposeAssocData() method of the removed
AssocData instance is not called.
.TP
\fBsetAssocData\fR
The \fBsetAssocData\fR method creates the association between the
string \fIkey\fR and the AssocData instance, \fIdata\fR.  If an old
association of the same \fIkey\fR already exists, the old association
is removed before the new association is created.
.TP
\fBgetAssocData\fR
The \fBgetAssocData\fR method returns the AssocData instance
associated with \fIkey\fR.  If no such AssocData has been registered,
null is returned.
.TP
\fBdeleteAssocData\fR
The \fBdeleteAssocData\fR method removes the association between the
string \fIkey\fR and the AssocData instance.

.SH EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS
Tcl_SetAssocData, Tcl_GetAssocData, Tcl_DeleteAssocData

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Interp, AssocData

.SH KEYWORDS
association, data, deletion procedure, interpreter, key
