'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: setResult.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:09 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH setResult 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.Interp -- This manual entry contains Interp methods that manipulate
the result object.

.SH METHODS
.sp
TclObject \fBgetResult\fR()
.sp
void \fBsetResult\fR(TclObject \fItobj\fR)
.sp
void \fBsetResult\fR(String \fIstr\fR)
.sp
void \fBsetResult\fR(int \fIi\fR)
.sp
void \fBsetResult\fR(double \fId\fR)
.sp
void \fBsetResult\fR(boolean \fIb\fR)
.sp
void \fBresetResult\fR()

.SH OTHER METHODS
\fBsetVar\fR, 
\fBtraceVar\fR, 
\fBcreateCommand\fR,
\fBeval\fR, 
\fBbackgroundError\fR,
.br
\fBgetNotifier\fR, 
\fBsetAssocData\fR, 
\fBdispose\fR, 
\fBpkgRequire\fR

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject tobj .
.AP TclObject tobj
TclObject value to become result for \fIInterp\fR.
.AP String str
String value to become result for \fIInterp\fR.
.AP int i
Primitive int value to become result for \fIInterp\fR.
.AP double d
Primitive double value to become result for \fIInterp\fR.
.AP boolean b
Primitive boolean value to become result for \fIInterp\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
The procedures described here are utilities for manipulating the
result value in a Tcl interpreter.  The interpreter result is stored
as a TclObject but may be set as a TclObject, String, int, double or
float.   See the manual entry \fBbackgroundError\fR for information on
processing errors.
.TP
\fBsetResult\fR
The \fBsetResult\fR method arranges for the argument to be the result
for \fIinterp\fR, replacing any existing result.
The result is left pointing to a TclObject that was converted from one
of the five possible argument types.  The TclObjects's reference count
is incremented since there is now a new reference to it from \fIInterp\fR.
The reference count for any old result object
is decremented and the old result object is freed if no
references to it remain.
.TP
\fBgetResult\fR
the \fBgetResult\fR method returns the result for \fITnterp\fR as a TclObject.
The object's reference count is not incremented;
if the caller needs to retain a long-term handle to the object
they should use \fBpreserve\fR method of the TclObject to increment
its reference count in order to keep it from being garbage collected
too early or accidently changed.
.TP
\fBresetResult\fR
The \fBresetResult\fR method clears the result for \fIInterp\fR
and leaves the result in its normal empty initialized state.
The result's reference count is decremented and the result is left
pointing to an unshared object representing an empty string.
Calls to \fBresetResult\fR also clear the error state managed by
\fBaddErrorInfo\fR, and \fBsetErrorCode\fR.

.SH EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS
Tcl_SetObjResult, Tcl_GetObjResult, Tcl_SetResult, Tcl_ResetResult 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Interp, setVar, Eval, backgroundError	

.SH KEYWORDS
append, command, element, interpreter, list, object, result, return value
