'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1998 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: setVar.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:09 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH setVar 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.Interp -- This manual entry contains Interp methods that manipulate
Tcl variables.

.SH METHODS
.sp
void \fBsetVar\fR(String \fIname\fR, TclObject \fIvalue\fR, int \fIflags\fR) throws TclException
.sp
void \fBsetVar\fR(String \fIpart1\fR, String \fIpart2\fR, TclObject\fIvalue\fR, int \fIflags\fR) throws TclException
.sp
TclObject \fBgetVar\fR(String \fIname\fR, int \fIflags\fR) throws TclException
.sp
TclObject \fBgetVar\fR(String \fIpart1\fR, String \fIpart2\fR, int \fIflags\fR) throws TclException
.sp
void \fBunsetVar\fR(String \fIname\fR, int \fIflags\fR) throws TclException
.sp
void \fBunsetVar\fR(String \fIpart1\fR, String \fIpart2\fR, int \fIflags\fR) throws TclException

.SH OTHER METHODS
\fBcreateCommand\fR,
\fBtraceVar\fR, 
\fBeval\fR, 
\fBsetResult\fR, 
\fBbackgroundError\fR,
.br
\fBgetNotifier\fR, 
\fBsetAssocData\fR, 
\fBdispose\fR, 
\fBpkgRequire\fR

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject value .
.AP String name
Name of variable.  May refer to a scalar variable or an array variable
with a parenthesized index.
.AP String part1
Name of scalar or array variable.  If \fIpart2\fR
is null, \fIpart1\fR is treated like \fIname\fR.  Otherwise,
\fIpart1\fR must be an array variable with no index.
.AP String part2
If not null, gives name of element within array; in this
case \fIpart1\fR must refer to an array variable with no index.
.AP TclObject value
The TclObject containing the new value for the variable.
.AP int flags
OR-ed combination of bits providing additional information. See below
for valid values.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
These methods are used to create, modify, read, and delete
Tcl variables from Java code.
.TP
\fBsetVar\fR
The \fBsetVar\fR methods create a new variable or modify the existing
variable whose name is \fIname\fR or the combination of \fIpart1\fR
and \fIpart2\fR.  See the \fBOVERLOADING\fR section below to learn how
arguments \fIpart1\fR
and \fIpart2\fR are combined to form a valid variable name.  These
methods set the given variable to the value given by \fIvalue\fR and
return void.  If an error occurs in setting the variable (e.g. an
array variable is referenced without giving an index into the array) a
\fBTclException\fR is generated and an error message is left in
\fIinterp\fR's result unless the \fBTCL.DONT_THROW_EXCEPTION\fR
\fIflag\fR bit is set.
.TP
\fBgetVar\fR
The \fBgetVar\fR methods return the current value of the variable
whose name is \fIname\fR or the combination of \fIpart1\fR and
\fIpart2\fR (as described for the \fBsetVar\fR method above).  The
return value is a
\fBTclObject\fR containing the variable's value.  If an error occurs
while reading the variable (e.g. the variable doesn't exist or an
array element is specified for a scalar variable), then a
\fBTclException\fR is generated and an error message is left in
\fIinterp\fR's result unless the \fBTCL.DONT_THROW_EXCEPTION\fR
\fIflag\fR bit is set.
.TP
\fBunsetVar\fR
The \fBunsetVar\fR methods may be used to remove a variable, so that
future attempts to read the variable will generate exceptions.  The
arguments to these methods are treated in the same way as the
arguments to the methods above.  If the variable cannot be removed
because it doesn't exist then a \fBTclException\fR is generated and an
error message is left in \fIinterp\fR's result unless the
\fBTCL.DONT_THROW_EXCEPTION\fR \fIflag\fR bit is set.  If an array
element is specified, the given element is removed but the array
remains.  If an array name is specified without an index, then the
entire array is removed.

.SH OVERLOADING
These methods are overloaded to allow three different ways to specify
variable names.
.IP [1]
If \fBsetVar\fR, \fBgetVar\fR, or \fBunsetVar\fR is invoked with the
\fIname\fR argument, the variable name is given as a single string,
\fIname\fR.  If \fIname\fR contains an open parenthesis and ends with
a close parenthesis, then the value between the parentheses is treated
as an index (which can have any string value) and the characters
before the first open parenthesis are treated as the name of an array
variable.  If \fIname\fR doesn't have parentheses as described above,
then the entire string is treated as the name of a scalar variable.
.IP [2]
If the \fIpart1\fR and \fIpart2\fR arguments are provided and
\fIpart2\fR is not null, then the variable \fIpart1\fR(\fIpart2\fR) is
specified.  The \fIpart1\fR argument contains the array name, and the
\fIpart2\fR argument contains the index.
.IP [3]
If the \fIpart1\fR and \fIpart2\fR arguments are provided and
\fIpart2\fR is null, then \fIpart1\fR is treated the same as the
\fIname\fR argument in step [1].

.SH FLAGS
The \fIflags\fR argument may be used to specify any of several options
to the methods.  It consists of an OR-ed combination of the following
bits.
.TP
\fBTCL.GLOBAL_ONLY\fR
Under normal circumstances, the procedures look up variables as follows.
If a procedure call is active in \fBInterp\fR,
the variable is looked up at the current level of procedure call.
Otherwise, the variable is looked up first in the current namespace,
then in the global namespace.
However, if this bit is set in \fIflags\fR then the variable
is looked up only in the global namespace,
even if there is an active procedure call.
If both \fBTCL.GLOBAL_ONLY\fR and \fBTCL.NAMESPACE_ONLY\fR are given,
\fBTCL.GLOBAL_ONLY\fR is ignored.
.TP
\fBTCL.NAMESPACE_ONLY\fR
If this bit is set in \fIflags\fR then the variable
is looked up only in the current namespace; if a procedure is active,
its variables are ignored, and the global namespace is also ignored unless
it is the current namespace.
.TP
\fBTCL.APPEND_VALUE\fR
If this bit is set then \fIvalue\fR is appended to variable's the
current value instead of replacing it.  If the variable is currently
undefined, then the bit is ignored.  This bit is only used by the
\fBsetVar\fR methods.
.TP
\fBTCL.LIST_ELEMENT\fR
If this bit is set, then \fIvalue\fR is converted to a valid
Tcl list element before setting (or appending to) the variable.
A separator space is appended before the new list element unless
the list element is going to be the first element in a list or
sublist (i.e. the variable's current value is empty, or contains
the single character ``{'', or ends in `` }'').

.SH EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS
Tcl_SetVar, Tcl_SetVar2, Tcl_GetVar, Tcl_GetVar2, Tcl_UnsetVar,
Tcl_UnsetVar2 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Interp, setResult, traceVar

.SH KEYWORDS
array, get, interpreter, object, scalar, set, unset, variable
