'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996-1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: TclBoolean.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:08 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH TclBoolean 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.TclBoolean -- This class is used to create and read boolean
objects from Java code.

.SH EXTENDS
tcl.lang.InternalRep

.SH METHODS
.sp
static TclObject \fBnewInstance\fR(boolean \fIbooleanValue\fR)
.sp
static boolean \fBget\fR(Interp \fIinterp\fR, TclObject \fItobj\fR) throws TclException

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject "booleanValue" .
.AP boolean booleanValue
New value for internal boolean representation.
.AP Interp interp
If an error occurs while converting an object to be a boolean object,
an error message is left in the interpreter's result object
unless \fIinterp\fR is NULL.
.AP TclObject tobj
TclObject from which to extract a boolean value.  If the internal
representation of \fItobj\fR is not a TclBoolean, the method attempts to
convert it to a TclBoolean.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
\fBnewInstance\fR
The \fBnewInstance\fR method creates and returns a new TclObject whose
internal representation is the boolean \fIbooleanValue\fR.
.TP
\fBget\fR
The \fBget\fR method returns an boolean value from the \fItobj\fR.  If an error
occurs while converting \fItobj\fR to be a boolean object, an error
message is left in the \fIinterp\fR's result object unless
\fIinterp\fR is NULL.

.SH "EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS"
Tcl_NewBooleanObj, Tcl_GetBooleanFromObj

.SH "SEE ALSO"
InternalRep, TclObject, TclList, TclString, TclInteger, TclDouble, ReflectObject

.SH KEYWORDS
internal representation, object, object type, boolean
