'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996-1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: TclDouble.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:09 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH TclDouble 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.TclDouble -- This class is used to create, read, and modify double
objects from Java code.

.SH EXTENDS
tcl.lang.InternalRep

.SH METHODS
.sp
static TclObject \fBnewInstance\fR(double \fIdoubleValue\fR)
.sp
static double \fBget\fR(Interp \fIinterp\fR, TclObject \fItobj\fR) throws TclException
.sp
static void \fBset\fR(TclObject \fItobj\fR, double \fIdoubleValue\fR)

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject "doubleValue" .
.AP double doubleValue
New value for internal double representation.
.AP Interp interp
If an error occurs while converting an object to be a double object,
an error message is left in the interpreter's result object
unless \fIinterp\fR is NULL.
.AP TclObject tobj
TclObject to manipulate.  If the internal representation of
\fItobj\fR is not TclDouble, the method converts it to TclDouble.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
\fBnewInstance\fR
The \fBnewInstance\fR method creates and returns a new TclObject whose internal
representation is the double \fIdoubleValue\fR.  The precision of
\fIdoubleValue\fR is controlled by the global Tcl variable
tcl_precision, whose default value is 12.

.TP
\fBget\fR
The \fBget\fR method returns a double value from the \fItobj\fR.  If an error
occurs while converting \fItobj\fR to be a double object, an error
message is left in the \fIinterp\fR's result object unless
\fIinterp\fR is NULL.
.TP
\fBset\fR
The \fBset\fR method sets \fItobj\fR to have the double value of \fIdoubleValue\fR.
When this method returns, the internal representation of \fItobj\fR
is TclDouble.

.SH "EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS"
Tcl_NewDoubleObj, Tcl_GetDoubleFromObj, Tcl_SetDoubleObj

.SH "SEE ALSO"
InternalRep, TclObject, TclList, TclIndex, TclString, TclInteger,
TclBoolean, ReflectObject

.SH KEYWORDS
double, internal representation, object, object type, precision, tcl_precision
