'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: TclEvent.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:08 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH TclEvent 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.TclEvent -- Subclass from this abstract base class to
create event handlers.

.SH METHODS
.sp
abstract int \fBprocessEvent\fR(int \fIflags\fR)
.sp
synchronized final void \fBsync\fR()

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject "table[]" .
.AP int flags
Same as \fIflags\fR passed to the \fBdoOneEvent\fR method of the
\fBNotifier\fR class.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION

The TclEvent class is used to schedule events to be processed in a
Jacl Notifier. Usually, an event-driven Jacl application consists of
one "Notifier Thread" and one or more "Event Detection Threads". When
an Event Detection Thread detects an event, it puts an instance of
TclEvent on the queue of the Notifier. Then, when the Notifier Thread
is ready to process events (i.e., when the \fBdoOneEvent\fR method of
the \fBNotifier\fR class is invoked), it invokes the
\fBprocessEvent\fR method of the TclEvent instances in the order they
appear in the Notifier's event queue.

.TP
\fBprocessEvent\fR
When \fBprocessEvent\fR is called, it should determine whether the
event can be processed right away (possibly based on the settings of
the \fIflags\fR parameter). If the event cannot be processed yet, this
method returns 0, in which case the Notifier will leave the event in
the event queue and defer its processing to some later
time. Otherwise, this method should process the event and return 1, in
which case the Notifier will remove the event from the event queue.

.TP
\fBsync\fR
Usually, \fBTclEvent\fR instances are processed asynchronously. If
synchronous processing is desired, an Event Detection Thread can call
the \fBsync\fR method, which waits until the event is processed by the
Notifier. The TclEvent must be in the event queue before its
\fBsync\fR method can be invoked, otherwise a \fBTclRuntimeError\fR
will be generated.

.SH "EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS"
Tcl_EventProc, Tcl_ServiceAll

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Notifier, Interp, TclRuntimeError, IdleHandler, TimerHandler

.SH KEYWORDS
event, event queue, thread, event sources, event detection
