'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996-1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: TclInteger.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:08 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH TclInteger 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.TclInteger -- This class is used to create, read, and modify integer
objects from Java code.

.SH EXTENDS
tcl.lang.InternalRep

.SH METHODS
.sp
static TclObject \fBnewInstance\fR(int \fIintValue\fR)
.sp
static int \fBget\fR(Interp \fIinterp\fR, TclObject \fItobj\fR) throws TclException
.sp
static int \fBgetForIndex\fR(Interp \fIinterp\fR, TclObject \fItobj\fR, int \fIendValue\fR) throws TclException
.sp
static void \fBset\fR(TclObject \fItobj\fR, int \fIintValue\fR)

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject "intValue" .
.AP int intValue
New value for internal integer representation.
.AP Interp interp
If an error occurs while converting an object to be an integer object,
an error message is left in the interpreter's result object
unless \fIinterp\fR is NULL.
.AP TclObject tobj
TclObject to manipulate.  If the internal representation of
\fItobj\fR is not TclInteger, the method converts it to TclInteger.
.AP int endValue
Value returned if \fItobj\fR is a String object whose value is "end".
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
\fBnewInstance\fR
The \fBnewInstance\fR method creates and returns a new TclObject whose internal
representation is the integer \fIintValue\fR.
.TP
\fBget\fR
The \fBget\fR method returns an integer value from the \fItobj\fR.  If an error
occurs while converting \fItobj\fR to be an integer object, an error
message is left in the \fIinterp\fR's result object unless
\fIinterp\fR is NULL.
.TP
\fBgetForIndex\fR
The \fBgetForIndex\fR method is intended to simplify operations that expect
either an integer value or the string "end".  If \fItobj\fR contains
the string "end", \fIendValue\fR is returned. Otherwise, the same
operations as TclInteger.get are performed.
.TP
\fBset\fR
The \fBset\fR method sets \fItobj\fR to have the integer value of \fIintValue\fR.
When this method returns, the internal representation of \fItobj\fR
is TclInteger.

.SH "EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS"
Tcl_NewIntObj, Tcl_GetIntFromObj, TclGetIntForIndex, Tcl_SetIntObj

.SH "SEE ALSO"
InternalRep, TclObject, TclList, TclIndex, TclString, TclDouble, TclBoolean, ReflectObject

.SH KEYWORDS
internal representation, object, object type, integer
