'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996-1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: TclNumArgsException.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:08 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH TclNumArgsException 3 1.0 Tcl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH EXCEPTION
tcl.lang.TclNumArgsException -- This class signals Tcl errors
regarding wrong number of arguments.

.SH EXTENDS
tcl.lang.TclException

.SH CONSTRUCTORS
.sp
\fBTclNumArgsException\fR(Interp \fIinterp\fR, int \fIargc\fR, TclObject \fIargv[]\fR, String \fImsg\fR)

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject interp .
.AP Interp interp
Internal representation to be stored in newly created TclObject.
.AP int argc
The number of initial elements of \fIargv\fR that are appropriate arguments.
.AP TclObject argv[]
The array of arguments that perportedly has the wrong number of elements.
.AP String msg
Error message to append to the \fIargc\fR initial elements of \fIargv\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
TclNumArgsException is a convenient subclass of TclException for
command procedures to indicate that they have received the wrong
number of arguments.
.TP
\fBTclNumArgsException\fR
The \fBTclNumArgsException\fR constructor creates a TclException with
the completion code TCL.ERROR.  If the \fIinterp\fR is non-null, an
error message is created by appending \fImsg\fR to the first
\fIargc\fR elements of \fIargv\fR.  If \fImsg\fR is null, the error
message created is simply the first \fIargc\fR elements of \fIargv\fR.
The value of the \fIinterp\fR's result object is set to the newly
created error message.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
TclException, TclRuntimeError, Interp

.SH KEYWORDS
arguments, error, error checking, exception, return, result
