'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: TimerHandler.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:08 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH TimerHandler 3 1.0 Jacl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.TimerHandler -- Subclass from this abstract base class to
create timer event handlers.

.SH METHODS
.sp
\fBTimerhandler\fR(Notifier \fInotifier\fR, int \fImilliseconds\fR)
.sp
synchronized void \fBcancel\fR()	
.sp
abstract void \fBprocessTimerEvent\fR()

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS TclObject "table[]" .
.AP Notifier notifier
The Notifier in which to register the new TimerHandler.
.sp
.AP int milliseconds
How many milliseconds should be elapsed before the timer is fired.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION

The \fBTimerHandler\fR class is used to schedule code to be executed in a
future time. To write your own timer handler, subclass from
TimerHandler and override the \fBprocessTimerEvent\fR method.
.sp
The callback to \fBprocessTimerEvent\fR will be made by the \fInotifier\fR,
so the \fBTimerHandler\fR class is only useful in programs that
dispatch events through \fInotifier\fR.\fBdoOneEvent\fR or through Tcl
commands such as \fBvwait\fR. The call to \fBprocessTimerEvent\fR may
not be made at the exact time given by \fImilliseconds\fR: it will be
made at the next opportunity after that time.  For example, if
\fInotifier\fR.\fBdoOneEvent\fR isn't called until long after the time has
elapsed, or if there are other pending events to process before the
call to \fBprocessTimerEvent\fR, then the call to
\fBprocessTimerEvent\fR will be delayed.

.TP
\fBTimerHandler\fR
This constructor creates a TimerHandler instance and register it
inside the given \fInotifier\fR.
.TP
\fBcancel\fR
If the \fBprocessTimerEvent\fR method has not been invoked yet,
cancels this timer handler. If the \fBprocessTimerEvent\fR method has
already been invoked by the \fInotifier\fR, this call has no effect.
.TP
\fBprocessTimerEvent\fR
You can override this method to perform the desired actions when the
timer is fired. The TimerHandler instance can be created in any
thread. However, \fBprocessTimerEvent\fR is always called in the
primary thread of the \fInotifier\fR that was specified in the
TimerHandler constructor.

.SH "EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS"
Tcl_CreateTimerHandler

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Notifier, IdleHandler

.SH KEYWORDS
timer, event, event queue
