'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996-1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: Util.3,v 1.1 1998/10/14 21:09:08 cvsadmin Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Util 3 1.0 Tcl "Jacl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH CLASS
tcl.lang.Util -- This class contains static utility routines.

.SH METHODS
.sp
static boolean \fBstringMatch\fR(String \fIstring\fR, String \fIpattern\fR)

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS String pattern .
.AP String string
String to check for a match with \fIpattern\fR.
.AP String pattern
Pattern to match \fIstring\fR against.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
This class contains utility routines that do not naturally fit into
other classes in the tcl.lang package.  Currently, only one method is
public.  However, more are likely to be offered in the future.
.TP
\fBstringMatch\fR
The \fBstringMatch\fR method returns a boolean depending on whether
\fIstring\fR matches with the \fIpattern\fR according to Tcl's "glob"
rules.  For the two strings to match, their contents must be identical
except that the following special sequences may appear in
\fIpattern\fR:
.RS
.RS
.IP \fB*\fR 10
Matches any sequence of characters in \fIstring\fR,
including a null string.
.IP \fB?\fR 10
Matches any single character in \fIstring\fR.
.IP \fB[\fIchars\fB]\fR 10
Matches any character in the set given by \fIchars\fR.  If a sequence
of the form
\fIx\fB\-\fIy\fR appears in \fIchars\fR, then any character
between \fIx\fR and \fIy\fR, inclusive, will match.
.IP \fB\e\fIx\fR 10
Matches the single character \fIx\fR.  This provides a way of
avoiding the special interpretation of the characters
\fB*?[]\e\fR in \fIpattern\fR.
.RE
.RE

.SH "EQUIVALENT C FUNCTIONS"
Tcl_StringMatch

.SH "SEE ALSO"
string, glob, regexp

.SH KEYWORDS
glob, regexp, string, string match, utility
